In the previous lesson, we learned that there is an internal measure used by face recognition to estimate
the distance between faces in different images.
If that distance is greater than 0.6, it will determine that it is false and that is not the same person.
And if that distance is less than 0.6, it will determine that it is true that it is the same subject.
This number 0.6 is the default value.
But if we want the tolerance of the system to be wider or in the country stricter, we can modify this
value.
So let's see how it can be handled within the code.
So we said the smaller the distance, the larger the match.
So before we finish the code, let's apply a measurement of distance.
We're going to create a variable called distance, which is going to be equal to an object of f r with
the method face distance.
This is going to ask us for two values face encoding and face to compare.
Again, we have to pass the face encoding as a list.
So we put braces and inside we put coded face A and then in the place of face to compare, we're going
to put coded face B, this is going to store in distance the result of measuring the distance.
Now we're going to print it so that we can see it on the screen with print distance.
So now, in addition to true or false, we're also going to see what the distance is between two people.
Well, I'm going to do it this time by comparing my own pictures.
And if I run our code.
We're going to see on screen that besides saying that the match is true, it also tells us that the
distance between control picture and test picture is 0.418, so that it's less than 0.6.
And that's why face recognition has come to the conclusion that there's enough of a match to make that
these two bearded men are the same person.
So now let's do an experiment.
Let's modify that default value here in result where we apply compare faces.
If we add one more comma in the parameters, we'll see that this method allows us to enter one more
value, which is tolerance.
Tolerance is a float value, which by default is set at 0.6.
So as we saw, the comparison between my two photos were 0.41.
So now let's decrease the tolerance to see if it stops recognizing the match.
So we're now going to make the tolerance 0.3, i.e. the threshold is going to be less than the distance
of my photos.
Now, any value higher than 0.3 will mean that there is not enough match.
So now we've run.
And having manipulated this value, when the photos arrive, we will see that even though the distance
is still 0.4, it now says that it is false and that Federico A and this Federico B are not the same
person, even though I swear they are.
Maybe this one is a little younger.
So now let's do the reverse test.
Let's raise the value of tolerance so that it emits matches more generously.
So let me check what the distance is between me and Brad Pitt.
We should be about 1 million.
So we're going to run it.
And now we see that the distance between me and Brad Pitt is 0.85.
Well, not as much as I expected.
So now we're going to modify the value of tolerance and we're going to set it to the 0.9.
And we'll run it again to see what the result is.
And now, to Brad Pitt's delight, the match is true.
I can already imagine Brad telling his friends that he's more or less like his humble instructor.
Great.
This is how we manipulate the tolerance limit to make the matches more closely match what we want.
In the next lesson, we're going to learn how we can also have the distance value printed on the image
next to the rectangle.
So see you in the next lesson.